README.md, before:

# Bootleg

[![CircleCI](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/labzero/bootleg/master.svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/labzero/bootleg) [![Hex.pm](https://img.shields.io/hexpm/v/bootleg.svg)](https://hex.pm/packages/bootleg) [![Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/l/doctrine/orm.svg)](https://github.com/labzero/bootleg/blob/master/LICENSE)

Simple deployment and server automation for Elixir.

**Bootleg** is a simple set of commands that attempt to simplify building and deploying Elixir applications. The goal of the project is to provide an extensible framework that can support many different deployment scenarios with one common set of commands.

Out of the box, Bootleg provides remote build and remote server automation for your [Distillery](https://github.com/bitwalker/distillery) releases. Bootleg assumes your project is committed into a **git** repository and some of the build steps use this assumption
to handle code within the build process. If you are using another source control management (SCM) tool please consider contributing to Bootleg to
add additional support.

## Installation

```
def deps do
  [{:distillery, "~> 1.5", runtime: false},
   {:bootleg, "~> 0.7", runtime: false}]
end
```

## Build server setup

In order to build your project, Bootleg requires that your build server be set up to compile
Elixir code. Make sure you have already installed Elixir on any build server you define.

## Quick Start

### Initialize your project

This step is optional but if run will create an example `config/deploy.exs` file that you
can use as a starting point.

```sh
$ mix bootleg.init
```

### Configure your release parameters

```elixir
# config/deploy.exs
use Bootleg.Config

role :build, "your-build-server.local", user: "develop", identity: "~/.ssh/id_deploy_rsa", workspace: "/some/build/workspace"
role :app, ["web1", "web2", "web3"], user: "admin", identity: "~/.ssh/id_deploy_rsa", workspace: "/var/myapp"
```

### build and deploy

```sh
$ mix bootleg.build
$ mix bootleg.deploy
$ mix bootleg.start
```

also see: [Phoenix support](#phoenix-support)

## Configuration

Create and configure Bootleg's `config/deploy.exs` file:

```elixir
# config/deploy.exs
use Bootleg.Config

role :build, "build.example.com", user, "build", port: 2222, workspace: "/tmp/build/myapp"
role :app, ["web1.example.com", "web2.myapp.com"], user: "admin", workspace: "/var/www/myapp"
```

### Environments

Bootleg has its own concept of environments, which is analogous to but different from `MIX_ENV`. Bootleg environments
are used if you have multiple clusters that you deploy your code to, such as a QA or staging cluster, in addition to
your `production` cluster. Your main Bootleg config still goes in `config/deploy.exs`, and environment specific details
goes in `config/deploy/your_bootleg_env.exs`. The selected environment config file gets loaded immediately after
`config/deploy.exs`. To invoke a Bootleg command with a specific environment, simply pass it as the first argument to
any bootleg Mix command.

For example, say you have both a `production` and a `staging` cluster. Your configuration might look like:

```elixir
# config/deploy.exs
use Bootleg.Config

task :my_nifty_thing do
  Some.jazz()
end

after_task :deploy, :my_nifty_thing

role :build, "build.example.com", user, "build", port: 2222, workspace: "/tmp/build/myapp"
```

```elixir
# config/deploy/production.exs
use Bootleg.Config

role :app, ["web1.example.com", "web2.example.com"], user: "admin", workspace: "/var/www/myapp"
```

```elixir
# config/deploy/staging.exs
use Bootleg.Config

role :app, ["stage1.example.com", "stage2.example.com"], user: "admin", workspace: "/var/www/myapp"
```

Then if you wanted to update staging, you would `mix bootleg.update staging`. If you wanted to update production,
it would be `mix bootleg.update production`, or just `mix bootleg.update` (the default environment is `production`).

It is not a requirement that you define an environment file for each environment, but you will get a warning if
a specific environment file can't be found. It is strongly encouraged to have an environment file per environment.

### The `config` macro

The `config` macro can be used to get and set arbitrary key value pairs for use within Bootleg.

There are a few config settings that are directly used within Bootleg itself, they can be overwritten if needed, but can generally be left alone.

```elixir
config :app, :myapp
config :refspec, "develop" # Set a git branch used for the build. Default is "master"
config :version, "1.2.3"
config :env, :staging # sets/overrides the bootleg environment
config :ex_path, "/path/to/project" # Path to the project. Default is current directory.
```

Any additional `config` settings can be set the same way and then looked up later with `config/1`.

```elixir
  use Bootleg.Config
  config :foo, :bar

  # local_foo will be :bar
  local_foo = config :foo

  # local_foo will be :bar still, as :foo already has a value
  local_foo = config {:foo, :car}

  # local_hello will be :world, as :hello has not been defined yet
  local_hello = config {:hello, :world}

  config :hello, nil
  # local_hello will be nil, as :hello has a value of nil now
  local_hello = config {:hello, :world}

```

## Roles

Actions in Bootleg are paired with roles, which are simply a collection of hosts that are responsible for the same function, for example building a release, archiving a release, or executing commands against a running application.

Role names are unique so there can only be one of each defined, but hosts can be grouped into one or more roles. Roles can be declared repeatedly to provide a different set of options to different sets of hosts.

By defining roles, you are defining responsibility groups to cross cut your host infrastructure. The `build` and
`app` roles have inherent meaning to the default behavior of Bootleg, but you may also define more that you can later filter on when running commands inside a Bootleg hook. There is another built in role `:all` which will always include
all hosts assigned to any role. `:all` is only available via `remote/2`.

Some features or extensions may require additional roles, for example if your
release needs to run Ecto migrations, you will need to assign the `:db`
role to one host.

### Role and host options

Options are set on roles and on hosts based on the order in which the roles are defined. Some are used internally
by Bootleg:

  * `workspace` - remote path specifying where to perform a build or push a deploy (default `.`)
  * `user` - ssh username (default to local user)
  * `password` - ssh password
  * `identity` - unencrypted private key file path (passphrases are not supported at this time)
  * `port` - ssh port (default `22`)
  * `env` - map of environment variable and values. ie: `%{PORT: "1234", FOO: "bar"}`
  * `replace_os_vars` - controls the `REPLACE_OS_VARS` environment variable used by Distillery for release configuration (default `true`)

`build` role specific option:
  * `release_workspace` - specify the remote path where the release is placed. If not specified the release is downloaded locally (default `nil`)

`app` role specific option:
  * `release_workspace` - specify the remote path where the release is copied from. If not specified the release is uploaded from local machine (defaul `nil`)

#### Examples

```elixir
role :app, ["host1", "host2"], user: "deploy", identity: "/home/deploy/.ssh/deploy_key.priv"
role :app, ["host2"], port: 2222
```
> In this example, two hosts are declared for the `app` role, both as the user *deploy* but only *host2* will use the non-default port of *2222*.

```elixir
role :app, ["host1", "host2"], port: 2222, env: %{FOO: "bar", BIZ: "baz"}
```
> In this example, some additional environment variables are set for all `:app` hosts, `FOO=bar` and `BIZ=baz`.

```elixir
role :db, ["db.example.com", "db2.example.com"], user: "datadog"
role :db, "db.example.com", primary: true
```
> In this example, two hosts are declared for the `db` role but the first will receive a host-specific option for being the primary. Host options can be arbitrarily named and targeted by tasks.

```elixir
role :balancer, ["lb1.example.com", "lb2.example.com"], banana: "boat"
role :balancer, "lb3.example.com"
```
> In this example, two load balancers are configured with a host-specific option of *banana*. The `balancer` role itself also receives the role-specific option of *banana*. A third balancer is then configured without any specific host options.

```elixir
role :build, "example.com", workspace: "/home/deployer/builds", release_workspace: "/home/deployer"
role :app, "example.com", release_workspace: "/home/deployer"
```
> In this example, the release is built and deployed on the same remote. By specifying a `release_workspace` on the `:build` role, a release is placed in `home/deployer`. and by specifying a `release_workspace` on the `:app` role, the release is copied from the `/home/deployer` directory to the app workspace. Note that the release is not downloaded.
#### SSH options

If you include any common `:ssh.connect` options they will not be included in role or host options and will only be used when establishing SSH connections (exception: *user* is always passed to role and hosts due to its relevance to source code management).

Supported SSH options include:

* user
* port
* timeout
* recv_timeout

> Refer to `Bootleg.SSH.supported_options/0` for the complete list of supported options, and [:ssh.connect](http://erlang.org/doc/man/ssh.html#connect-2) for more information.

### Role restrictions

Bootleg extensions may impose restrictions on certain roles, such as restricting them to a certain number of hosts. See the extension documentation for more information.

### Roles provided by Bootleg

* `build` - Takes only one host. If a list is given, only the first hosts is
used and a warning may result.
* `app` -  Takes a list of hosts, or a string with one host.

## Mix Tasks

### Building and deploying a release

```console
mix bootleg.build production
mix bootleg.deploy production
mix bootleg.start production
```

Alternatively the above commands can be rolled into one with:

```console
mix bootleg.update production
```

Note that `bootleg.update` will stop any running nodes and then perform a cold start. The stop is performed with
the task `stop_silent`, which differs from `stop` in that it does not fail if the node is already stopped.

`bootleg.build` will clean the remote workspace prior to copying the code over, to ensure that any files left from
a previous build do not cause issues. The entire contents of the remote workspace are removed via `rm -rf *` from
the root of the workspace. You can configure this behavior by setting the config option `clean_locations`, which
takes a list of locations and passes them to `rm -rf` on the remote server. Relative paths will be interpreted relative
to the workspace, absolute paths will be treated as is. Warning: this means that `config :clean_locations, ["/"]` would
attempt to erase the entire root file system of your remote server. Be careful when altering `clean_locations` and never
use a privileged user on your build server.

### Admin Commands

Bootleg has a set of commands to check up on your running nodes:

```console
mix bootleg.restart production   # Restarts a deployed release.
mix bootleg.start production     # Starts a deployed release.
mix bootleg.stop production      # Stops a deployed release.
mix bootleg.ping production      # Check status of running nodes
```

### Invoking a Bootleg task

There's also a way to invoke Bootleg tasks from Mix. Similar to the built-in Mix tasks above, here you can also target a specific deploy environment.

#### Sample Bootleg task definitions

`config/deploy.exs`:

```elixir
use Bootleg.Config
task :zap do
  IO.puts "do the zap thing"
end
```

`config/deploy/qa.exs`:

```elixir
use Bootleg.Config
task :zap do
  IO.puts "no zappy"
end
```

#### Invoking the Bootleg tasks

```console
# target the default deploy environment
mix bootleg.invoke zap
> "do the zap thing"
# target the "qa" deploy environment
mix bootleg.invoke qa zap
> "no zappy"
```

### Other Commands

```console
# Initializes a project for use with Bootleg
mix bootleg.init
```

## Bootleg Tasks

### Build Tasks
* `build` - build process for creating a release package
  * `init` - sets up a bare repository for pushing code to
  * `clean` - cleans the remote workspace
  * `push_remote` - pushes code to build server
  * `reset_remote` - checks out the branch specified by `refspec` option (defaults to `master`)
  * `compile` - compilation of your project
  * `generate_release` - generation of the release package
  * `download_release` - pulls down the release archive

### Deployment Tasks
* `deploy` - deploy of a release package
  * `upload_release`
  * `unpack_release`

### Build and Deploy
* `update`
  * `build`
  * `deploy`
  * `stop_silent`
  * `start`

### Management tasks
* `start` - starting of a release
* `stop` - stopping of a release
* `restart` - restarting of a release
* `ping` - check connectivity to a deployed app

## Hooks

Hooks may be defined by the user in order to perform additional (or exceptional)
operations before or after certain actions performed by Bootleg.

Hooks can be defined for any task (built-in or user defined), even those that do not exist. This can be used
to create an "event" that you want to respond to, but has no real "implementation".

To register a hook, use:

 * `before_task <:task> do ... end` - Before `task` executes, execute the provided code block.
 * `after_task <:task> do ... end` - After `task` executes, execute the provided code block.

For example:

```elixir
use Bootleg.Config

before_task :build do
  IO.puts "Starting build..."
end

after_task :deploy do
  MyAPM.notify_deploy()
end
```

You can define multiple hooks for a task, and they will be executed in the order they are defined. For example:

```elixir
use Bootleg.Config

before_task :start do
  IO.puts "This may take a bit"
end

after_task :start do
  IO.puts "Started app!"
end

before_task :start do
  IO.puts "Starting app!"
end
```

would result in:

```
$ mix bootleg.build
This may take a bit
Starting app!
...
Started app!
$
```

## `invoke` and `task`

There are a few ways for custom code to be executed during the Bootleg life
cycle. Before showing some examples, here's a quick glossary of the related
pieces.

 * `task <:identifier> do ... end` - Assign a block of code to the atom provided as `:identifier`.
   This can then be executed by using the `invoke` macro.
 * `invoke <:identifier>` - Execute the `task` code blocked identified by `:identifier`, as well as
   any before/after hooks.

**NOTE:** Invoking an undefined task is not an error and any registered hooks will still be executed.

```elixir
use Bootleg.Config

before_task :build do
  IO.puts "Hello"
  invoke :custom_event
end

task :custom_task do
  IO.puts "World"
end

after_task :custom_event do
  IO.puts "Elixir"
  invoke :custom_task
end
```

A shortened `before`/`after` syntax can be used to simply invoke a task directly from an event.

```elixir
task :clear_cache do
  {:ok, _} = remote do
    "rm -rf /tmp/cache"
  end
end

before_task :restart, do: :clear_cache
```

Alternatively:

```elixir
before_task :restart do
  {:ok, _output} = remote do
    "rm -rf /tmp/cache"
  end
end
```

## `remote`

The workhorse of the Bootleg DSL is `remote`: it executes shell commands on remote servers and returns
the results. It takes a role and a block of commands to execute. The commands are executed on all servers
belonging to the role, and raises an `SSHError` if an error is encountered. Optionally, a list of options
can be provided to filter the hosts where the commands are run.

```elixir
use Bootleg.Config

# basic
remote :app do
  "echo hello"
end

# multi line
remote :app do
  "touch ~/file.txt"
  "rm file.txt"
end

# getting the result
[{:ok, [stdout: output], _, _}] = remote :app do
  "ls -la"
end

# raises an SSHError
remote :app do
  "false"
end

# filtering - only runs on app hosts with an option of primary set to true
remote :app, filter: [primary: true] do
  "mix ecto.migrate"
end

# change working directory - creates a file `/tmp/foo`, regardless of the role
# workspace configuration
remote :app, cd: "/tmp" do
  "touch ./foo"
end
```

## Phoenix Support

If your application has extra steps required, you may make use of the hooks
system to add additional functionality. A common case is for building assets for Phoenix
applications.

### Using the bootleg_phoenix package

To run these steps automatically you may include the additional package
`bootleg_phoenix` in your `deps` list. This package provides the build hook commands required to build most Phoenix releases.

See also: [labzero/bootleg_phoenix](https://github.com/labzero/bootleg_phoenix).

### Using your own deploy configuration and hooks

Similar to how `bootleg_phoenix` is implemented, you can make use of the hooks system to run some commands on the build server around compile time.

```elixir
task :phx_digest do
  remote :build, cd: "assets" do
    "npm install"
    "./node_modules/brunch/bin/brunch b -p"
  end
  remote :build do
    "MIX_ENV=prod mix phx.digest"
  end
end

after_task :compile, :phx_digest
```

## Task Providers

Sharing is a good thing. Bootleg supports loading
tasks from packages in a manner very similar to `Mix.Task`.

You can create and share custom tasks by namespacing a module under `Bootleg.Tasks` and passing a block of Bootleg DSL:

```elixir
defmodule Bootleg.Tasks.Foo do
  use Bootleg.Task do
    task :foo do
      IO.puts "Foo!!"
    end

    before_task :build, :foo
  end
end
```
In order to be found and loaded by Bootleg, external tasks need to be loaded via a `Mix.Project` dependency.

See also: [Bootleg.Task](https://hexdocs.pm/bootleg/Bootleg.Task.html#content) for additional examples.

## Help

For detailed information about the Bootleg commands and their options, try `mix bootleg help <command>`.

We're usually around on Slack where you can find us on [elixir-lang's #bootleg channel](http://elixir-lang.slack.com/messages/bootleg/) if you have any questions.

-----

## Acknowledgments

Bootleg makes heavy use of the [bitcrowd/SSHKit.ex](https://github.com/bitcrowd/sshkit.ex)
library under the hood. We are very appreciative of the efforts of the bitcrowd team for both creating SSHKit.ex and being so attentive to our requests. We're also grateful for the opportunity to collaborate
on ideas for both projects!

## Contributing

We welcome all contributions to Bootleg, whether they're improving the documentation, implementing features, reporting issues or suggesting new features.

If you'd like to contribute documentation, please check
[the best practices for writing documentation][writing-docs].


## LICENSE

Bootleg source code is released under the MIT License.
Check the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more information.

  [issues]: https://github.com/labzero/bootleg/issues
  [pulls]: https://github.com/labzero/bootleg/pulls
  [writing-docs]: http://elixir-lang.org/docs/stable/elixir/writing-documentation.html

Commit message:

Add support for local build option

README.md, after:

# Bootleg

[![CircleCI](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/labzero/bootleg/master.svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/labzero/bootleg) [![Hex.pm](https://img.shields.io/hexpm/v/bootleg.svg)](https://hex.pm/packages/bootleg) [![Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/l/doctrine/orm.svg)](https://github.com/labzero/bootleg/blob/master/LICENSE)

Simple deployment and server automation for Elixir.

**Bootleg** is a simple set of commands that attempt to simplify building and deploying Elixir applications. The goal of the project is to provide an extensible framework that can support many different deployment scenarios with one common set of commands.

Out of the box, Bootleg provides remote build and remote server automation for your [Distillery](https://github.com/bitwalker/distillery) releases. Bootleg assumes your project is committed into a **git** repository and some of the build steps use this assumption
to handle code within the build process. If you are using another source control management (SCM) tool please consider contributing to Bootleg to
add additional support.

## Installation

```
def deps do
  [{:distillery, "~> 1.5", runtime: false},
   {:bootleg, "~> 0.7", runtime: false}]
end
```

## Build server setup

In order to build your project, Bootleg requires that your build server be set up to compile
Elixir code. Make sure you have already installed Elixir on any build server you define.

## Quick Start

### Initialize your project

This step is optional but if run will create an example `config/deploy.exs` file that you
can use as a starting point.

```sh
$ mix bootleg.init
```

### Configure your release parameters

```elixir
# config/deploy.exs
use Bootleg.Config

role :build, "your-build-server.local", user: "develop", identity: "~/.ssh/id_deploy_rsa", workspace: "/some/build/workspace"
role :app, ["web1", "web2", "web3"], user: "admin", identity: "~/.ssh/id_deploy_rsa", workspace: "/var/myapp"
```

### build and deploy

```sh
$ mix bootleg.build
$ mix bootleg.deploy
$ mix bootleg.start
```

also see: [Phoenix support](#phoenix-support)

## Configuration

Create and configure Bootleg's `config/deploy.exs` file:

```elixir
# config/deploy.exs
use Bootleg.Config

role :build, "build.example.com", user, "build", port: 2222, workspace: "/tmp/build/myapp"
role :app, ["web1.example.com", "web2.myapp.com"], user: "admin", workspace: "/var/www/myapp"
```

### Environments

Bootleg has its own concept of environments, which is analogous to but different from `MIX_ENV`. Bootleg environments
are used if you have multiple clusters that you deploy your code to, such as a QA or staging cluster, in addition to
your `production` cluster. Your main Bootleg config still goes in `config/deploy.exs`, and environment specific details
goes in `config/deploy/your_bootleg_env.exs`. The selected environment config file gets loaded immediately after
`config/deploy.exs`. To invoke a Bootleg command with a specific environment, simply pass it as the first argument to
any bootleg Mix command.

For example, say you have both a `production` and a `staging` cluster. Your configuration might look like:

```elixir
# config/deploy.exs
use Bootleg.Config

task :my_nifty_thing do
  Some.jazz()
end

after_task :deploy, :my_nifty_thing

role :build, "build.example.com", user, "build", port: 2222, workspace: "/tmp/build/myapp"
```

```elixir
# config/deploy/production.exs
use Bootleg.Config

role :app, ["web1.example.com", "web2.example.com"], user: "admin", workspace: "/var/www/myapp"
```

```elixir
# config/deploy/staging.exs
use Bootleg.Config

role :app, ["stage1.example.com", "stage2.example.com"], user: "admin", workspace: "/var/www/myapp"
```

Then if you wanted to update staging, you would `mix bootleg.update staging`. If you wanted to update production,
it would be `mix bootleg.update production`, or just `mix bootleg.update` (the default environment is `production`).

It is not a requirement that you define an environment file for each environment, but you will get a warning if
a specific environment file can't be found. It is strongly encouraged to have an environment file per environment.

### The `config` macro

The `config` macro can be used to get and set arbitrary key value pairs for use within Bootleg.

There are a few config settings that are directly used within Bootleg itself, they can be overwritten if needed, but can generally be left alone.

```elixir
config :app, :myapp
config :env, :staging # sets/overrides the bootleg environment
config :ex_path, "/path/to/project" # Path to the project. Default is current directory.
config :local_build, true # build releases locally without a `:build` role
config :refspec, "develop" # Set a git branch used for the build. Default is "master"
config :version, "1.2.3"
```

Any additional `config` settings can be set the same way and then looked up later with `config/1`.

```elixir
  use Bootleg.Config
  config :foo, :bar

  # local_foo will be :bar
  local_foo = config :foo

  # local_foo will be :bar still, as :foo already has a value
  local_foo = config {:foo, :car}

  # local_hello will be :world, as :hello has not been defined yet
  local_hello = config {:hello, :world}

  config :hello, nil
  # local_hello will be nil, as :hello has a value of nil now
  local_hello = config {:hello, :world}

```

## Roles

Actions in Bootleg are paired with roles, which are simply a collection of hosts that are responsible for the same function, for example building a release, archiving a release, or executing commands against a running application.

Role names are unique so there can only be one of each defined, but hosts can be grouped into one or more roles. Roles can be declared repeatedly to provide a different set of options to different sets of hosts.

By defining roles, you are defining responsibility groups to cross cut your host infrastructure. The `build` and
`app` roles have inherent meaning to the default behavior of Bootleg, but you may also define more that you can later filter on when running commands inside a Bootleg hook. There is another built in role `:all` which will always include
all hosts assigned to any role. `:all` is only available via `remote/2`.

Some features or extensions may require additional roles, for example if your
release needs to run Ecto migrations, you will need to assign the `:db`
role to one host.

#### Local build option

You may not need a remote build server for all situations. In these cases, you can skip designating a `:build` role, and instead set the top level `:local_build` option to `true`. This will tell bootleg to skip all of the steps required to build the release on a remote server and instead built it locally.

```elixir
# deploy.exs
use Bootleg.Config

config :local_build, true
```

### Role and host options

Options are set on roles and on hosts based on the order in which the roles are defined. Some are used internally
by Bootleg:

  * `workspace` - remote path specifying where to perform a build or push a deploy (default `.`)
  * `user` - ssh username (default to local user)
  * `password` - ssh password
  * `identity` - unencrypted private key file path (passphrases are not supported at this time)
  * `port` - ssh port (default `22`)
  * `env` - map of environment variable and values. ie: `%{PORT: "1234", FOO: "bar"}`
  * `replace_os_vars` - controls the `REPLACE_OS_VARS` environment variable used by Distillery for release configuration (default `true`)

`build` role specific option:
  * `release_workspace` - specify the remote path where the release is placed. If not specified the release is downloaded locally (default `nil`)

`app` role specific option:
  * `release_workspace` - specify the remote path where the release is copied from. If not specified the release is uploaded from local machine (defaul `nil`)

#### Examples

```elixir
role :app, ["host1", "host2"], user: "deploy", identity: "/home/deploy/.ssh/deploy_key.priv"
role :app, ["host2"], port: 2222
```
> In this example, two hosts are declared for the `app` role, both as the user *deploy* but only *host2* will use the non-default port of *2222*.

```elixir
role :app, ["host1", "host2"], port: 2222, env: %{FOO: "bar", BIZ: "baz"}
```
> In this example, some additional environment variables are set for all `:app` hosts, `FOO=bar` and `BIZ=baz`.

```elixir
role :db, ["db.example.com", "db2.example.com"], user: "datadog"
role :db, "db.example.com", primary: true
```
> In this example, two hosts are declared for the `db` role but the first will receive a host-specific option for being the primary. Host options can be arbitrarily named and targeted by tasks.

```elixir
role :balancer, ["lb1.example.com", "lb2.example.com"], banana: "boat"
role :balancer, "lb3.example.com"
```
> In this example, two load balancers are configured with a host-specific option of *banana*. The `balancer` role itself also receives the role-specific option of *banana*. A third balancer is then configured without any specific host options.

```elixir
role :build, "example.com", workspace: "/home/deployer/builds", release_workspace: "/home/deployer"
role :app, "example.com", release_workspace: "/home/deployer"
```
> In this example, the release is built and deployed on the same remote. By specifying a `release_workspace` on the `:build` role, a release is placed in `home/deployer`. and by specifying a `release_workspace` on the `:app` role, the release is copied from the `/home/deployer` directory to the app workspace. Note that the release is not downloaded.
#### SSH options

If you include any common `:ssh.connect` options they will not be included in role or host options and will only be used when establishing SSH connections (exception: *user* is always passed to role and hosts due to its relevance to source code management).

Supported SSH options include:

* user
* port
* timeout
* recv_timeout

> Refer to `Bootleg.SSH.supported_options/0` for the complete list of supported options, and [:ssh.connect](http://erlang.org/doc/man/ssh.html#connect-2) for more information.

### Role restrictions

Bootleg extensions may impose restrictions on certain roles, such as restricting them to a certain number of hosts. See the extension documentation for more information.

### Roles provided by Bootleg

* `build` - Takes only one host. If a list is given, only the first hosts is
used and a warning may result.
* `app` -  Takes a list of hosts, or a string with one host.

## Mix Tasks

### Building and deploying a release

```console
mix bootleg.build production
mix bootleg.deploy production
mix bootleg.start production
```

Alternatively the above commands can be rolled into one with:

```console
mix bootleg.update production
```

Note that `bootleg.update` will stop any running nodes and then perform a cold start. The stop is performed with
the task `stop_silent`, which differs from `stop` in that it does not fail if the node is already stopped.

`bootleg.build` will clean the remote workspace prior to copying the code over, to ensure that any files left from
a previous build do not cause issues. The entire contents of the remote workspace are removed via `rm -rf *` from
the root of the workspace. You can configure this behavior by setting the config option `clean_locations`, which
takes a list of locations and passes them to `rm -rf` on the remote server. Relative paths will be interpreted relative
to the workspace, absolute paths will be treated as is. Warning: this means that `config :clean_locations, ["/"]` would
attempt to erase the entire root file system of your remote server. Be careful when altering `clean_locations` and never
use a privileged user on your build server.

### Admin Commands

Bootleg has a set of commands to check up on your running nodes:

```console
mix bootleg.restart production   # Restarts a deployed release.
mix bootleg.start production     # Starts a deployed release.
mix bootleg.stop production      # Stops a deployed release.
mix bootleg.ping production      # Check status of running nodes
```

### Invoking a Bootleg task

There's also a way to invoke Bootleg tasks from Mix. Similar to the built-in Mix tasks above, here you can also target a specific deploy environment.

#### Sample Bootleg task definitions

`config/deploy.exs`:

```elixir
use Bootleg.Config
task :zap do
  IO.puts "do the zap thing"
end
```

`config/deploy/qa.exs`:

```elixir
use Bootleg.Config
task :zap do
  IO.puts "no zappy"
end
```

#### Invoking the Bootleg tasks

```console
# target the default deploy environment
mix bootleg.invoke zap
> "do the zap thing"
# target the "qa" deploy environment
mix bootleg.invoke qa zap
> "no zappy"
```

### Other Commands

```console
# Initializes a project for use with Bootleg
mix bootleg.init
```

## Bootleg Tasks

### Build Tasks
* `build` - build process for creating a release package
  * `init` - sets up a bare repository for pushing code to
  * `clean` - cleans the remote workspace
  * `push_remote` - pushes code to build server
  * `reset_remote` - checks out the branch specified by `refspec` option (defaults to `master`)
  * `compile` - compilation of your project
  * `generate_release` - generation of the release package
  * `download_release` - pulls down the release archive

### Deployment Tasks
* `deploy` - deploy of a release package
  * `upload_release`
  * `unpack_release`

### Build and Deploy
* `update`
  * `build`
  * `deploy`
  * `stop_silent`
  * `start`

### Management tasks
* `start` - starting of a release
* `stop` - stopping of a release
* `restart` - restarting of a release
* `ping` - check connectivity to a deployed app

## Hooks

Hooks may be defined by the user in order to perform additional (or exceptional)
operations before or after certain actions performed by Bootleg.

Hooks can be defined for any task (built-in or user defined), even those that do not exist. This can be used
to create an "event" that you want to respond to, but has no real "implementation".

To register a hook, use:

 * `before_task <:task> do ... end` - Before `task` executes, execute the provided code block.
 * `after_task <:task> do ... end` - After `task` executes, execute the provided code block.

For example:

```elixir
use Bootleg.Config

before_task :build do
  IO.puts "Starting build..."
end

after_task :deploy do
  MyAPM.notify_deploy()
end
```

You can define multiple hooks for a task, and they will be executed in the order they are defined. For example:

```elixir
use Bootleg.Config

before_task :start do
  IO.puts "This may take a bit"
end

after_task :start do
  IO.puts "Started app!"
end

before_task :start do
  IO.puts "Starting app!"
end
```

would result in:

```
$ mix bootleg.build
This may take a bit
Starting app!
...
Started app!
$
```

## `invoke` and `task`

There are a few ways for custom code to be executed during the Bootleg life
cycle. Before showing some examples, here's a quick glossary of the related
pieces.

 * `task <:identifier> do ... end` - Assign a block of code to the atom provided as `:identifier`.
   This can then be executed by using the `invoke` macro.
 * `invoke <:identifier>` - Execute the `task` code blocked identified by `:identifier`, as well as
   any before/after hooks.

**NOTE:** Invoking an undefined task is not an error and any registered hooks will still be executed.

```elixir
use Bootleg.Config

before_task :build do
  IO.puts "Hello"
  invoke :custom_event
end

task :custom_task do
  IO.puts "World"
end

after_task :custom_event do
  IO.puts "Elixir"
  invoke :custom_task
end
```

A shortened `before`/`after` syntax can be used to simply invoke a task directly from an event.

```elixir
task :clear_cache do
  {:ok, _} = remote do
    "rm -rf /tmp/cache"
  end
end

before_task :restart, do: :clear_cache
```

Alternatively:

```elixir
before_task :restart do
  {:ok, _output} = remote do
    "rm -rf /tmp/cache"
  end
end
```

## `remote`

The workhorse of the Bootleg DSL is `remote`: it executes shell commands on remote servers and returns
the results. It takes a role and a block of commands to execute. The commands are executed on all servers
belonging to the role, and raises an `SSHError` if an error is encountered. Optionally, a list of options
can be provided to filter the hosts where the commands are run.

```elixir
use Bootleg.Config

# basic
remote :app do
  "echo hello"
end

# multi line
remote :app do
  "touch ~/file.txt"
  "rm file.txt"
end

# getting the result
[{:ok, [stdout: output], _, _}] = remote :app do
  "ls -la"
end

# raises an SSHError
remote :app do
  "false"
end

# filtering - only runs on app hosts with an option of primary set to true
remote :app, filter: [primary: true] do
  "mix ecto.migrate"
end

# change working directory - creates a file `/tmp/foo`, regardless of the role
# workspace configuration
remote :app, cd: "/tmp" do
  "touch ./foo"
end
```

## Phoenix Support

If your application has extra steps required, you may make use of the hooks
system to add additional functionality. A common case is for building assets for Phoenix
applications.

### Using the bootleg_phoenix package

To run these steps automatically you may include the additional package
`bootleg_phoenix` in your `deps` list. This package provides the build hook commands required to build most Phoenix releases.

See also: [labzero/bootleg_phoenix](https://github.com/labzero/bootleg_phoenix).

### Using your own deploy configuration and hooks

Similar to how `bootleg_phoenix` is implemented, you can make use of the hooks system to run some commands on the build server around compile time.

```elixir
task :phx_digest do
  remote :build, cd: "assets" do
    "npm install"
    "./node_modules/brunch/bin/brunch b -p"
  end
  remote :build do
    "MIX_ENV=prod mix phx.digest"
  end
end

after_task :compile, :phx_digest
```

## Task Providers

Sharing is a good thing. Bootleg supports loading
tasks from packages in a manner very similar to `Mix.Task`.

You can create and share custom tasks by namespacing a module under `Bootleg.Tasks` and passing a block of Bootleg DSL:

```elixir
defmodule Bootleg.Tasks.Foo do
  use Bootleg.Task do
    task :foo do
      IO.puts "Foo!!"
    end

    before_task :build, :foo
  end
end
```
In order to be found and loaded by Bootleg, external tasks need to be loaded via a `Mix.Project` dependency.

See also: [Bootleg.Task](https://hexdocs.pm/bootleg/Bootleg.Task.html#content) for additional examples.

## Help

For detailed information about the Bootleg commands and their options, try `mix bootleg help <command>`.

We're usually around on Slack where you can find us on [elixir-lang's #bootleg channel](http://elixir-lang.slack.com/messages/bootleg/) if you have any questions.

-----

## Acknowledgments

Bootleg makes heavy use of the [bitcrowd/SSHKit.ex](https://github.com/bitcrowd/sshkit.ex)
library under the hood. We are very appreciative of the efforts of the bitcrowd team for both creating SSHKit.ex and being so attentive to our requests. We're also grateful for the opportunity to collaborate
on ideas for both projects!

## Contributing

We welcome all contributions to Bootleg, whether they're improving the documentation, implementing features, reporting issues or suggesting new features.

If you'd like to contribute documentation, please check
[the best practices for writing documentation][writing-docs].


## LICENSE

Bootleg source code is released under the MIT License.
Check the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more information.

  [issues]: https://github.com/labzero/bootleg/issues
  [pulls]: https://github.com/labzero/bootleg/pulls
  [writing-docs]: http://elixir-lang.org/docs/stable/elixir/writing-documentation.html
