docs/reference/ci.md, before:

## CircleCI

### Running builds from CircleCI

#### Add SSH keys to CircleCI

To connect to remote build or app servers using SSH public keys, you must first
define those keys in your CircleCI project settings, under "Checkout SSH keys".
After adding a key its fingerprint will be displayed.

!!! example "Example SSH key fingerprint"
    27:a3:eb:bc:65:b1:99:de:3a:42:3f:9e:75:b6:1b:f9

#### Using SSH keys in CircleCI containers

In order for your container to receive that key, you must specify it in your
`.circleci/config.yml` using the CircleCI
[`add_ssh_keys`](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#add_ssh_keys)
step.

!!! example "CircleCI SSH key configuration"
    ```yml
    - add_ssh_keys:
         fingerprints:
           - "27:a3:eb:bc:65:b1:99:de:3a:42:3f:9e:75:b6:1b:f9"
    ```

At this point your container will have SSH keys available when launched:

    :::plain
    .ssh/
    ├── id_rsa # an auto-generated key
    └── id_rsa_27a3ebbc65b199de3a423f9e75b61bf9 # your key

The private key file is named using the fingerprint above.

#### Using the CircleCI SSH key within Bootleg

To inform Bootleg of your key, you can specify this full filename, or you could symlink or copy it to another name.

!!! example "Option 1: Specify the full filename in Bootleg"
    ```elixir
    role :build, "example.com", identity: "~/.ssh/id_rsa_27a3ebbc65b199de3a423f9e75b61bf9"
    ```

!!! example "Option 2: Create a symbolic link in CircleCI"
    Within your CircleCI yml:
    ```yml
    steps:
      - run: ln -s ~/.ssh/id_rsa_27a3* ~/.ssh/id_foobar_rsa
    ```

    Within Bootleg config:
    ```elixir
    role :build, "example.com", identity: "~/.ssh/id_foobar_rsa"
    ```

!!! example "Option 3: Overwrite the default `id_rsa`"
    Within your CircleCI yml:
    ```yml
    steps:
      - run: cp ~/.ssh/id_rsa_* ~/.ssh/id_rsa
    ```

    Within Bootleg config:
    ```elixir
    role :build, "example.com", identity: "~/.ssh/id_rsa"
    ```

Commit message:

Call out use of —warnings-as-errors release option

docs/reference/ci.md, after:

## General tips

From Distillery's [CLI docs](https://hexdocs.pm/distillery/tooling/cli.html):

!!! quote
    If you are building releases as part of your CI/CD pipeline, you may want to use the `--warnings-as-errors` flag to the release task. This will prevent building releases which may fail at runtime from making it through the pipeline.

To set this and other options that are passed to `mix release`, you can use the `config/2` macro:

!!! example "config/deploy.exs"
    ```elixir
    use Bootleg.DSL

    config(:release_args, ["--warnings-as-errors"])
    ```

See also: [Built-in Macros](/reference/macros.md#config)

## CircleCI

### Running builds from CircleCI

#### Add SSH keys to CircleCI

To connect to remote build or app servers using SSH public keys, you must first
define those keys in your CircleCI project settings, under "Checkout SSH keys".
After adding a key its fingerprint will be displayed.

!!! example "Example SSH key fingerprint"
    27:a3:eb:bc:65:b1:99:de:3a:42:3f:9e:75:b6:1b:f9

#### Using SSH keys in CircleCI containers

In order for your container to receive that key, you must specify it in your
`.circleci/config.yml` using the CircleCI
[`add_ssh_keys`](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#add_ssh_keys)
step.

!!! example "CircleCI SSH key configuration"
    ```yml
    - add_ssh_keys:
         fingerprints:
           - "27:a3:eb:bc:65:b1:99:de:3a:42:3f:9e:75:b6:1b:f9"
    ```

At this point your container will have SSH keys available when launched:

    :::plain
    .ssh/
    ├── id_rsa # an auto-generated key
    └── id_rsa_27a3ebbc65b199de3a423f9e75b61bf9 # your key

The private key file is named using the fingerprint above.

#### Using the CircleCI SSH key within Bootleg

To inform Bootleg of your key, you can specify this full filename, or you could symlink or copy it to another name.

!!! example "Option 1: Specify the full filename in Bootleg"
    ```elixir
    role :build, "example.com", identity: "~/.ssh/id_rsa_27a3ebbc65b199de3a423f9e75b61bf9"
    ```

!!! example "Option 2: Create a symbolic link in CircleCI"
    Within your CircleCI yml:
    ```yml
    steps:
      - run: ln -s ~/.ssh/id_rsa_27a3* ~/.ssh/id_foobar_rsa
    ```

    Within Bootleg config:
    ```elixir
    role :build, "example.com", identity: "~/.ssh/id_foobar_rsa"
    ```

!!! example "Option 3: Overwrite the default `id_rsa`"
    Within your CircleCI yml:
    ```yml
    steps:
      - run: cp ~/.ssh/id_rsa_* ~/.ssh/id_rsa
    ```

    Within Bootleg config:
    ```elixir
    role :build, "example.com", identity: "~/.ssh/id_rsa"
    ```
